1	The birch canoe slid on the smooth planks.
2	Global business leaders and governments have had plenty of time to adjust to the realities of a rapidly growing elderly population. Since the 1980s, average life expectancy in the United States and Europe has climbed by almost two years each decade.
3	It's easy to tell the depth of a well.
4	Yet, as world leaders arrive at this year’s World Economic Forum in Davos to discuss this and other burning issues, it still feels like the challenges of an ageing population have taken them by surprise.
5	In 1980 someone retiring at the age of 65 could have expected to live for another 13 years in the United Kingdom or Germany. By 2010 that had risen to around 18 years. Thanks to healthier lifestyles and advances in medical treatments, by 2050 that same person is expected to reach age 86-plus in both countries.
6	Falling birth rates in western economies post the 1960s have put further strain on governments, significantly reducing the number of workers able to support state pension plans.
7	Sir Martin Sorrell, CEO of global advertising agency WPP said people will need to work longer to close the pension and retirement savings gap. (WPP)
8	In the US such corporate plans are also now mostly closed to new members as many employers have switched to defined contribution 401(k) plans. Public employees in the US have increasingly been met with contracts that, for new hires, raise their retirement age or curb payout amounts for pensions.
9	Indeed such changes are already afoot. In the US, there is no longer a mandatory retirement age. According to US Bureau of Labor statistics, these days almost one-third of 65-to-69 year-old Americans work, up from less than 18% in 1985.
10	“What we are seeing at the moment is a jobless recovery as companies are focusing on headcount. Some of the technology revolution that we are seeing such as 3D printing will further dramatically reduce the demand for labour,” a development, he said, that will put further strain on government finances.
